Wheel of Fortune is a game where three players compete to solve word  puzzles in order to win virtual cash and prizes. By spinning the Wheel  made up of various dollar values and special wedges, the players add to  their virtual banks as long as they correctly guess letters in the puzzle.  The object is to bank as much virtual money as possible by the end of the  game. Each game consists of eight rounds; Two Toss-Up rounds followed  by Round One, The Jackpot Round, The Mystery Round, a third Toss-Up  round, Round Four and The Bonus Round.

In this version of Wheel of Fortune there are four game modes: Local  Game, Road Trip, Join Online and Host Online. In Local Game and Road  Trip mode one can compete in a three-player game against other players  on the same console or against the computer. If less than three players  participate in one game, the computer will control the remaining avatars  to uphold the three-player structure. While Local Game consists of one  classic eight-round game, the Road Trip mode offers three games in a  row, each with a different city theme. The themes are picked at random  from a list of eleven cities. In the Join Online mode, one gets the chance  to compete against other Wheel of Fortune players online. Host Online,  allows the user to invite friends to an online Wheel of Fortune challenge. Please note that only Player 1 has access to online functionality.

Each round begins with the introduction of a word puzzle. Once the theme  has been presented, squares on the puzzle board light up, revealing the  number of letters and words in the puzzle. The assigned player will then  spin the Wheel which is comprised of wedges with various dollar  amounts, as well as a few special wedges that can either help or hurt the  player’s chances to solve the puzzle. The spin button must be pressed  twice in order to spin the Wheel; Once to activate the spin power meter,  and the second time to spin with the desired amount of power. After a  wedge value has been determined, the player has to choose a consonant  from the letter display on the bottom of the screen. If the consonant  appears in the puzzle, the board will reveal its position or positions, and  the player will receive the virtual dollar value of the wedge for every  appearance of that letter in the puzzle.  

The turn-based rounds consist of: Round One, The Jackpot Round, The  Mystery Round and Round Four. The second Toss-Up round determines who  begins Round One. The Jackpot Round starts off with the player next in  sequential numerical order, and the remaining player begins the Mystery  Round. Round Four starts with the player who wins the third Toss-Up  round. Note: If a Toss-Up puzzle is not solved, the subsequent round will  start with the player behind the red podium. Within a round of play, turns are always passed clockwise. The duration  of a single turn depends on the luck of the Wheel, and the player’s ability  to correctly guess letters in the puzzle.

Turns can be lost by the following: 1)Choosing a consonant or vowel that is not in the puzzle 2)Landing on the LOSE A TURN 3)Landing on BANKRUPT 4)Guessing an incorrect puzzle solution

Once a player has accumulated enough virtual money in a round, he or  she can buy a vowel for $250 by pressing the buy vowel button and  selecting a vowel from the letter display area. A vowel costs $250  whether it appears multiple times in the puzzle or not at all. The player  may purchase more than one vowel in succession so long as he or she has  the money to afford it. If the purchased vowel is not part of the puzzle,  the turn will pass to the next player. Note: For the purpose of this game,  the letter Y is treated as a consonant.

A player may attempt to solve the puzzle at the beginning of his or her  turn, or after supplying a letter found in the puzzle. In order to solve, the  player must press the solve button, and type in the answer on the puzzle  board before time expires. The player may use either the controller or the  keyboard for this task. The flashing cursor will appear on the first open  space on the board, and the player may type in the missing letters from  that point. Any corrections must be made before the entire answer is  completed, or time runs out. If the puzzle is correctly solved, the player’s  collected cash and prizes for the round will be added to his or her total  score. 

Landing on BANKRUPT or flipping a Mystery Wedge that reveals  BANKRUPT will not only cost a player his or her turn, but will remove any  virtual money or prizes the player has collected in the current round of  play.  The player who lands on the FREE SPIN wedge, wins the Free Spin token  by correctly guessing a consonant. The token is placed in the player’s  inventory, and the use of it will be suggested at the appropriate time. The  token can be won once per game.   

In Round One, a $1,000,000 prize wedge, surrounded by smaller BANKRUPT  wedges, is added to the Wheel.  The $1,000,000 wedge is then available to  be claimed until the completion of Round 3. If a player lands on the  $1,000,000 portion of the wedge and correctly selects a consonant, the  wedge will come off the Wheel and enter the player’s inventory. Note that  multiple appearances of consonants will not multiply the value of this  wedge. In order to keep the $1,000,000 wedge the player must eventually  solve the puzzle for that round.  If, after claiming the $1,000,000 wedge  the player lands on BANKRUPT, the $1,000,000 wedge is surrendered and  is no longer in play.  If the player advances to the bonus round with the  $1,000,000 wedge, the $100,000 prize is removed from the Bonus Wheel  and is replaced with the $1,000,000 prize.

Each game includes three Toss-Up rounds. The first Toss-Up round is  played for a $1,000 prize. The second Toss-Up round is played for a $2,000  prize and the chance to begin Round One. In the third Toss-Up round, the  winner gets $3,000 and control of the board starting Round Four.  For the Toss-Up puzzles, the wheel will not be spun, nor will the players  guess letters as in standard rounds. After the category is presented, the  letters in the puzzle will be revealed in random order on the board. The  players can buzz in at any time for the opportunity to solve, but may only  buzz in one time per round. Players who buzz in and submit an incorrect  response will be locked out for the remainder of the round. The winner of  the round is the player who buzzes in first and solves the puzzle.

The Jackpot Round starts off with a $5,000 Jackpot displayed in the top  left corner of the screen. The Jackpot amount increases by the dollar  value of each spin of the Wheel. Each wedge value is added only once to  the Jackpot total, even if a consonant appears multiple times in the  puzzle. To win the Jackpot, a player must land on the Jackpot wedge,  correctly choose a consonant, and then immediately solve the puzzle. If a  player solves the puzzle without having landed on Jackpot, the player will  only win the virtual money and prizes he or she has accumulated in that  round.

In the Mystery Round, two Mystery Wedges are added to the Wheel, each  identified by a question-mark. One Mystery Wedge hides a $10,000 prize,  the other conceals a BANKRUPT. A player who lands on a Mystery Wedge,  will have to decide whether to accept the face value of the wedge for  $1,000 per correct consonant in the puzzle, or gamble to reveal what is  underneath. If the $10,000 wedge is uncovered, the player will collect the  prize, and win its value only when solving the puzzle.

After Round Four is completed, the player with the highest total of virtual  cash and prizes advances to the Bonus Round. The player will be  presented with a category and puzzle, and then asked to spin a Bonus  Wheel. The prize on the bonus wedge the Wheel lands on will remain a  secret until the end of the round. Continuing on with the puzzle, any  occurrences of the letters R, S, T, L, N and E are revealed. The player  must then pick three additional consonants and one vowel which also will  be displayed on the board if applicable. Once all relevant letters have  been revealed, the player must solve the puzzle before time runs out.  There is no limit on the amount of guesses the player can type in during  the allotted time. A correct answer adds the prize on the bonus wedge to  the player’s total.

If two or more players are tied for the highest total upon completion of  Round Four, they will play an extra round of Toss-Up to determine the  final winner. The final winner will then get the chance to add to his or her  bank in the Bonus Round. The game is over once a player completes all eight rounds. In Road Trip  mode, three games totaling 24 rounds must be completed.